---
title: 3-1 · Depth-First Search | Tutorial - Algorithm
---

# 1. Depth-First Search

## Introduction

**Depth-First Search (DFS)** is a fundamental graph traversal algorithm used to explore or search through a graph. It starts at a given vertex and explores as far as possible along each branch before backtracking. It has various applications. For example, it can be used to detect cycles or find connected components.

## Algorithm

The DFS algorithm can be implemented using a stack or recursion. Here is a basic outline of the algorithm:

::content-help
A stack is a data structure that follows the principle of "last-in, first-out" (LIFO), where elements are added to the top and removed from the top.
::

1. Choose a starting vertex and push it onto the stack.
2. While the stack is not empty, pop a vertex and mark it as visited.
3. Push all the unvisited neighbors of the popped vertex onto the stack.
  ::content-help
  In this section, we will push neighbors in reverse order, e.g. from big to small. So that the smaller neighbors will be visited first.
  ::
4. Repeat steps 2 to 3 until the stack is empty.

::content-alert
Click on Auto Play to see the algorithm in action.
::

## Exercise
1. Run DFS algorithm starting at vertex 0 with Auto Play.
2. Change the starting vertex to 3 and run the algorithm manually (by clicking First Step).
3. Try to make a graph with 5 vertices and any number of edges. Choose a starting vertex and calculate the traversal order using DFS without looking at the result. Then, run the algorithm to check your answer.

::content-navigation
---
prevLink: /tutorial/representation/edge-list
prevTitle: Edge List
nextLink: /tutorial/algorithm/breadth-first-search
nextTitle: Breadth First Search
---
::
