---
title: 2-1 · Adjacency Matrix | Tutorial - Representation
---

# 1. Adjacency Matrix

## Introduction
The **Adjacency Matrix** is a n by n matrix used to represent the connections between n vertices in a graph. In the adjacency matrix, rows and columns correspond to vertices, with each cell `A[i][j]` being filled with 1 if vertices `i` and `j` are connected, and 0 otherwise. It can also be a weighted value if the graph includes edge weights.

- In an undirected graph, the adjacency matrix is symmetric, meaning `A[i][j]` equals `A[j][i]`.
- In a directed graph, the adjacency matrix is not necessarily symmetric. `A[i][j]` represents the existence of an edge directed from vertex i to vertex j

It is often used to efficiently analyze graphs, determine connectivity, and perform various graph algorithms.

::content-alert
Toggle between the directed and undirected graph to see the difference.
::
::content-alert
Because no loop is allowed in the interactive area, the diagonal values in the matrix are all 0.
::


## Advantages
1. **Efficient edge lookup:** With the adjacency matrix, it is easy to determine if there is an edge between any two vertices, as the connectivity information is directly stored in the matrix.
2. **Space efficiency:** In **dense graphs**, where most vertices are connected to many others, the adjacency matrix can be more space-efficient compared to an adjacency list. It only requires a square matrix of size _n_ by _n_, where _n_ is the number of vertices, regardless of the number of edges.

## Exercise

::content-exercise{:number-of-exercises=2}
#exercise-1
Edit the undirected graph so that it is equal to the adjacency matrix below:
```js
[
  [0,1,1,1,0],
  [1,0,0,0,1],
  [1,0,0,0,1],
  [1,0,0,0,0],
  [0,1,1,0,0]
]
```

#exercise-2
Edit the directed graph so that it is equal to the adjacency matrix below:
```js
[
  [0,0,0,1,0],
  [0,0,0,0,0],
  [0,1,0,0,0],
  [0,0,0,0,1],
  [0,1,1,0,0]
]
```
::

::content-navigation
---
prevLink: /tutorial/basic/rooted-tree
prevTitle: Rooted Tree
nextLink: /tutorial/representation/adjacency-list
nextTitle: Adjacency List
---
::
