---
title: 2-2 · Adjacency List | Tutorial - Representation
---

# 2. Adjacency List

## Introduction
The **Adjacency List** is a 2D array used to represent the connections between vertices in a graph. It consists of an array of vertices, where each vertex maintains an array (or list) of its adjacent vertices.

- In an undirected graph, the Adjacency List represents each vertex's neighbors without considering the direction of edges.
- In a directed graph, the Adjacency List only saves the neighbors of each vertex that are connected by an outgoing edge (also known as **successor**).

::content-alert
Toggle between the directed and undirected graph to see the difference.
::

## Advantages

1. **Efficient memory usage:** In **sparse graphs**, where the number of edges is relatively small compared to the number of vertices, the adjacency list can be more memory-efficient compared to an adjacency matrix. It only requires storage proportional to the number of edges, rather than the square of the number of vertices.
2. **Fast iteration over neighbors:** With the adjacency list, it is easy to iterate over the neighbors of a vertex. Each vertex maintains a list or array of its adjacent vertices, allowing for efficient traversal and exploration of the graph.

## Exercise

1. Edit the undirected graph so that it is equal to the adjacency list below:
    ```js
    [ 
      [1,2,3],
      [0,3],
      [0,4],
      [0,1,4],
      [2,3]
    ]
    ```
2. Edit the directed graph so that it is equal to the adjacency list below:
    ```js
    [
      [3],
      [0],
      [0],
      [2],
      [0,1]
    ]
    ```

::content-navigation
---
prevLink: /tutorial/representation/adjacency-matrix
prevTitle: Adjacency Matrix
nextLink: /tutorial/representation/edge-list
nextTitle: Edge List
---
::
